[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I started realizing so
much of my ideas of abundance
and success came
from my parents,
came from just other
people around me.
And it wasn't from here.
And when I got that, I
started asking myself,
what is my abundance?
What does it mean to me?
And as I started asking
that with real inquiry,
real genuineness,
almost a yearning
for my heart for a
deeper happiness,
I started getting clues.
I started getting-- the right
people would come along.
The right book would come along.
The right mentor would
show up because I feel
my soul was already abundant.
>> So when I was
in my early 20s,
I got my very first credit card.
And I went on a big,
giant spending spree
and ran up a bill and
got in all kinds of debt.
And the credit card
had 22% interest on it.
I didn't realize it at the time.
And it really ballooned.
And it became a
horrible fear for me
that I was never ever
going to get out of debt.
And it got so bad this
fear and the depression
around being in debt that
I couldn't sleep at night.
And it just really ate on me.
And at the time, I
was a news reporter.
And I had this belief that
I'm a struggling artist.
I'm a struggling writer.
I'm never going to make money.
I'm going to be in debt forever.
And there was this fellow
who was a financial analyst
and investor.
And he asked me to write
an article about him
and what he does.
And so I spent about six
months researching him.
And during this time, I was
in all this horrible debt.
But the title of
the article ended up
becoming "The Psychology
of Money Prosperity
and Abundance".
And what I learned during that
six months from this gentleman
is that wealth is
really a state of mind
and that our beliefs
are tied into that
and that this fear-based
thinking I had about
never getting out of
debt and the depression
was actually recursive
that was all feeding into.
So once I switch to that, I
mean literally just like that,
I completely got out of
debt within about six months
from writing the article.
>> One fun exercise when you're
trying to figure out what to do
is to get a big poster board
sheet of paper or a couple
of them and some colorful,
bright-colored markers.
So in the center of your poster
board what you want to do
is write out either the
question or just the topic
of what it is that you're
considering and then circle it.
And then write
everything that comes
to mind with all
the different colors
and do it as
quickly as you want.
You can draw little
pictures, whatever it is.
Write as many things that
come to your mind about this.
And then the thing to do is
to step back and just see
what you've created.
You can pin it up on a
wall for a couple of days.
And what you'll begin to
notice is that certain colors
start to pop out to you.
You think, oh, wow, I
never even thought of that.
Or certain things that
you just knew for sure
you were going to do with
this question or the situation
all of a sudden, maybe
they're not so bold anymore.
And what it does it allows
your subconscious mind
to start to create new ways of
understanding your situation.
You see, you have all the
information inside of you.
In your body, you
have everything
you need to get the best
answer for your life.
And this is another way
that you can discover it.
>> Another way you can start to
work with your limiting beliefs
once you begin to discover what
they are is to find some inner
mentors.
The mentors could be
people that believe in you.
They could be people who like
your parents or family members.
It could be places
that mean a lot to you.
A place can be a mentor,
like being part of the ocean.
It could be a historical figure.
Gandhi's always been kind of
a historical figure for me.
So sometimes, I think,
well, if Gandhi were here,
what would he say?
And it's one thing to ask
that, but it's another thing
to imagine Gandhi's right here.
Slip into Gandhi, look through
his eyes at you saying that.
And you'll find that you often
get very different information.
And it's surprising
how you often come up
with things you'd never come
up with without shifting
that perspective.
You have to make a sincere
effort to really become
that other person
with their beliefs,
values, and understandings.
Often, you get totally
different information that
would not have occurred to you.
>> I always believed that
even when I was in high school
and everything, like I wrote
papers about what would be when
I was successful.
I always said, I'm going to
have a million dollars by 40
and be able to retire by
50 and all these things.
And pretty much every single
thing I wrote on those papers
came true over the years.
I didn't even know I was
doing affirmations or positive
thinking or a vision board.
>> I try to visualize being
in a different feeling state,
not necessarily what life is
going to be like when I have
a manor house in France or I
spend 10 months of the year
on the beach.
It's not necessarily about that.
It's about having a
vision of what will it
be like to feel
calm and centered
and open and present
with the things that
are in my life today.
I don't live in a fancy house.
I live in the same house I
lived in when I was in a job
that I didn't particularly like.
I like my house.
My house is comfortable.
It suits me.
It feels good.
But I have a very
different presence
that I bring to every day.
For me, I actually tend
to visualize things
like feeling states.
I imagine a future in which
I'm going to be more calm,
have a better sense of
humor, be more engaged,
be more present for my family.
That's the
visualization that I do.
That's the future state
that I put myself in.
And it's not to say I don't
have some awesome things
that a person might want.
It's not to say I
don't have a cool car.
I do have a cool car.
It's not to say I'm not
going to go on a cool trip.
I do go on cool trips.
But the visualization for me is
not about some shiny lifestyles
of the rich and famous future.
It's about what kind of
person am I going to be?
What kind of sense
of humor and openness
am I going to bring to my
life and continue to develop?
That's what I visualize.
And that's what gives me juice.
That's what gives me energy.
>> And, of course, with
any habit shifting,
there's that plateau where you
don't see the results right
away.
But little by little, you
start to get momentum.
And it's tough when
you're beating yourself
up in the process.
You have to be excited.
You have to want to do it.
It has to come from a place
of interest and curiosity,
otherwise, you'll give up.
>> Any time we're living
according to someone
else's values, which are
not our highest values,
we end up going lower, lower
levels of fulfillment, less,
less meaningfulness.
And as a result of it, we
go into shrinking ourselves
and end up looking for
immediate gratification.
And that's where our
addictive behaviors emerge.
>> There's four different levels
to the interchange experience.
And the first level is
where you don't even
know that you don't know
that there's a problem.
And that's where you're
sitting around on the couch,
and you're drinking
your 12th beer.
And you're watching your
fourth rerun of some show.
And you don't even know
that there's an issue.
But clearly, from the outside,
if people were to look in,
they would know
there's an issue.
The second level
of interchange is
where you know that
there's something wrong,
but you don't know what it is.
And it's like there's
something there on the surface,
and you're just not feeling
right, and it's bothering you.
But you just don't
know what it is.
And it's like an itch
that you want to scratch,
but you don't know
where to scratch.
And the third level of change
is where the pain really
begins to kick in
because this is where
you know there's
something wrong,
and you actually
know what it is.
But you don't know what to do.
And this is the most painful
place that you can be.
And typically, anybody that's
on a personal development path,
they're going to find
themselves at this place.
And that's where those
dark nights happen.
And the best way to move
out of that into what I call
the fourth level of change is
where you create the change,
and you start living
the life that you want.
The best way to turbocharge
out of that third place
is to begin to work
on your inner self
and to work on your
inner development.
>> I actually started to see
myself as a child that needed
healing.
And I started to step
into that part of me that
could heal myself.
And I started being very loving
with myself and very gentle.
I felt like I could take
care of myself in a way
that I've never done before
by stepping into that witness
place where I was
observing myself.
>> When I was 22, I was
living with a guy, Kevin,
a friend of mine.
We were both in real estate.
And I was doing really
well, and he was struggling.
And in September
of 1982, I decided
to go travel around the world.
So I was going to go for
a year, a year and a half.
I'd made some pretty good
money in real estate.
I said, I'm going
to go see the world.
And I said, hey, I'm
going to give you
an opportunity that if you
want could really transform
your real estate business.
And he's also in his early '20s.
And I said, I have
these cassette
tapes on how to
think properly, how
to master your emotions
a little bit more,
and how to sell
more real estate.
I said, but I'm going to
charge you $500 for them
because that's what
I paid for them.
And I've been listening to
them every day for 30 minutes
to an hour a day like my
mentors taught me to listen to.
And he was like, what? $500?
Are you crazy?
I said, listen, it's helped
me make a lot of money
investing in real estate, as
well as selling real estate.
So if you want them,
I'll sell them to you,
and I'll buy them back
from you when I come back.
So he gave me $500 back in 1982.
And I gave him my cassettes.
And he started to
listen to them.
And by the time I came back,
it was November of 1983,
14 months later, he
had made six figures,
over $100,000 in real estate.
And when I asked
him, what happened?
He says, well, I
paid you $500, and I
started listening
to those cassettes
on my way to work and
back home every day
for 30 minutes to
45 minutes a day.
And he said, I really
don't know what happened,
but I started to
think differently.
I started to feel differently.
And I started selling
more real estate.
And I remember saying, well,
I want those cassettes back.
>> And when I hit a
barrier on my journey,
it's always a belief barrier.
It's never anything other
than a belief barrier.
It's never anybody
else's fault. It's
never that I'm a victim
of my circumstances.
It's never that there's nothing
I could have done or said
or thought differently.
It's always a function
of how I am in the world
and what I believe to be true.
And that is what I meet.
I meet my truth, whatever
it is at the time.
It's reflected back
to me in the world.
And if I don't like the truth
that's being reflected back
to me, then the place
to put my effort
is not to try and
change the world.
The place to put my effort
is to change what I believe,
and the world that
I see will change.
>> I could recite those audio
cassettes verbatim today from
what I listened to 31
years ago, verbatim.
I could recite every script,
every question, every answer
because I did it religiously.
I did it as a very,
very serious practice.
And I was told back
then that repetition
was the mother of
skill, and repetition
was the mother of learning
and that you had to practice
over and over and over again.
One time we were training the
wealthy-minded in Australia.
And when we were
there, we decided
if we were going to
go that far, we're
going to go to Cairns and
the Great Barrier Reef.
And we went and visited that.
And then, we're going on
to Sydney for the training.
And so we called a taxi
to take us from our hotel
to the airport.
And this fellow picks us up.
And he's driving a
little bit, and he said,
I can tell that you're from
America by your accent.
And he said, you're so lucky.
He said, you can never get
ahead in the Australian economy.
It's utterly impossible.
He went on to tell
us how horrible it
was and impossible it was.
And he said, so
what have you done?
And we said, well, we went
to the Great Barrier Reef,
and we went up to
this wonderful beach
place called Port Douglas.
And he said Port Douglas?
I'd never go to Port Douglas.
That's for rich people.
And he went on and on about how
impossible it was in Australia
to ever get ahead.
So we got to the airport,
got on an airplane,
flew to Sydney
where we were going
to be driven to our hotel,
and a taxi driver drives up.
And he jumps out,
and he goes, hello.
And he says, where
are you going?
And we said The Gazebo Hotel.
And he said, well,
I'll tell you what.
I can drive you a couple of
streets off of how I normally
go, and I'll show you a
great view of Sydney Harbor
that you'll never see otherwise.
Would you like that?
He said, I won't
even charge you more.
We said, well, sure,
that'd be great.
He's talking to us.
And he said, well, I'm
going to miss this job.
And we said, miss this job?
Why?
He said, well, he said, my
wife and I are retiring.
And we said, oh, well, so
what are you going to do?
He said, we're
retiring up north.
And I thought, north,
what's up there?
Brisbane, Gold Coast.
I said, is that
where you're going?
And he said, oh no, we're
going much further north.
We're retiring in Port Douglas.
And it was a story that's
always really stuck with me
because it's the same
economy, the same job, and one
person had a belief system
that enabled him to create
the life he wanted, and the
other one was stuck in his rut.
>> It wasn't something
that I was born with.
It was a skill that I learned.
And as I've studied other people
in every area of their life--
health, wealth, relationships,
career, business,
spiritual growth--
everybody goes through the ebb
and flow of life-- everybody.
There's no human being
that's impervious to it.
I don't care if
you're a monk that
is meditating for eight
hours a day in Dharamshala.
You go through highs
and lows, ups and downs.
And there are moments that
thoughts bring you down.
And you can develop the
skill of observation.
You can develop the
skill of nonjudgment.
skill of awareness.
You can develop the skill of
allowing things to happen.
>> I went through a process
of actively and consciously
reprogramming my beliefs.
I used very specific steps that
I had learned and developed
through my process to
reprogram my beliefs.
I saw my beliefs as either
an asset or a liability.
I didn't care if they
were real or not.
I just cared if they were
an asset or a liability.
I just saw that the ones that
would benefit me were assets.
And I instilled them.
And the ones that were
liabilities, I got rid of.
And I did that process
on a daily basis
through affirmations
and visualizations
and mental training.
I absolutely recreated my
belief system, step-by-step,
brick-by-brick, no
question about it.
>> The good news is the
brain can change at any time.
So if you jump
out of that groove
and if you challenge those
old beliefs, old patterns,
old environments, and you
get into new environments,
you can change.
So the past is an advisor,
not a determinant.